Misordered named parameters bug blog post (#205)
ethereum/solidity-website: src/posts/2026-05-20-misordered-named-parameters-in-require-with-custom-errors-bug.md

---
layout: post
published: true

> title: 'Misordered Named Parameters in require with Custom Errors Bug'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Misordered Named Parameters in `require` with Custom Errors Bug'
```

Author: This will just render with backticks instead of a "code sections", so can't really apply this one :)

> date: '2026-05-20'

Author: Don't forget

author: Solidity Team
category: Security Alerts
---

> On February 9, 2026, the Solidity team discovered a bug in the IR-based code generator that

Author: Do we know the actual reporter (aside from the EF bug bounty), and should we use them instead of "Solidity team"?

Reviewer 2: It was people from Spearbit. Hari will know.

Or you can ping EF - we still did not notify them that we changed the severity of this after our initial response and did not send impact analysis.

> On February 9, 2026, the Solidity team discovered a bug in the IR-based code generator that

Reviewer: Seems like a fairly long time to fix. Maybe worth mentioning in the next paragraph that due to the "very low" severity, it was not prioritized until now.

causes the arguments of a custom error passed to `require` using named-parameter syntax to be
ABI-encoded in call-site order rather than declaration order.

The bug was introduced in Solidity 0.8.26, which added support for passing custom errors as
the second argument to `require`.

> [Solidity version 0.8.36](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.36), released on May 20, 2026, provides a fix.

Reviewer: update date when we 0.8.36

> [Solidity version 0.8.36](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.36), released on May 20, 2026, provides a fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Solidity 0.8.36](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.36), released on May 20, 2026, provides a fix.
```
In the same paragraph, we say "Solidity 0.8.26", so let's be consistent. Past posts also omit "version"

We assigned the bug a severity of "very low".
The affected code is the construction of revert data for a transaction that is already going
to revert, so contract state is not modified by it.
Triggering the bug additionally requires a fairly specific pattern - a custom error passed to
`require` and instantiated with named arguments in a non-declaration order - and only affects
the IR-based pipeline.

> ## Which Contracts are Affected?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Which Contracts Are Affected?
```
previous posts use a header style with all words capitalized.

A contract is affected when **all** of the following conditions hold:

1. The contract is compiled with the IR-based pipeline (`--via-ir` on the command line or
   `viaIR: true` in Standard JSON). The evmasm pipeline is unaffected.
2. The contract uses `require(condition, ErrorName({...}))` where `ErrorName` is a user-defined
   error.
3. The named arguments are written in an order that differs from the order declared by the
   error definition. Positional arguments, or named arguments written in declaration order,
   produce the correct encoding.

Other language constructs that accept named arguments are **not** affected, including:

- `revert ErrorName({...})` statements,
- event emissions (`emit E({...})`),
- internal, external, library, and bound function calls,

> - struct constructor invocations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `revert ErrorName({...})` statements
- event emissions (`emit E({...})`)
- internal, external, library, and bound function calls
- struct constructor invocations
```
trailing commas on a bullet list reads weird, let's just remove trailing punctuation

> 

Reviewer: Add something that explicitly states a workaround until upgrading:
> Until upgrading, the bug can be avoided by writing the named arguments in declaration order, or by using positional arguments.

## Technical Details

A custom error declaration fixes the order of its parameters, and that order determines its
ABI signature and the layout of its encoded payload:

```solidity
error NamedArgsError(uint256 a, uint256 b);
```

Solidity also allows the caller to pass arguments by name, optionally in a different order
from the declaration:

```solidity
require(false, NamedArgsError({b: 7, a: 2}));
```

The compiler binds named arguments to parameters *by name*, so any permutation that mentions
every parameter exactly once is accepted by the type checker. The type system does not
require the call-site order to match the declaration. This means the bug can be triggered by
any reordering - including reorderings of two arguments of the same type, where no positional

> type mismatch could ever surface - which was the most surprising aspect of the bug.

Reviewer: It's a bit hard to read this sentence, since there's a comma inside the parenthetical dashes. Consider restructuring.

In the IR-based code generator, the lowering of `require` with a custom error passes the
arguments to the encoding helper in the order they appear at the call site, instead of first
reordering them to match the parameter order of the error. With the snippet above, the
contract reverts with a payload whose first word holds the value of `b` (`7`) and whose
second word holds the value of `a` (`2`), so off-chain decoders read `a = 7, b = 2` instead
of the intended `a = 2, b = 7`.

Standalone `revert ErrorName({...})` statements go through a different code path that
reorders arguments before encoding, and so are not affected. The bug is specific to the
`require`-with-custom-error path introduced in 0.8.26.

> ### Misalignment with Mixed Stack Widths

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Misalignment With Mixed Stack Widths
```
previous posts use a header style with all words capitalized.

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Misordered Named Parameters in require with Custom Errors Bug'
date: '2026-05-20'
author: Solidity Team
category: Security Alerts
---

On February 9, 2026, a bug in the IR-based code generator was reported through the Ethereum
Foundation bug bounty program. The bug causes the arguments of a custom error passed to
`require` using named-parameter syntax to be ABI-encoded in call-site order rather than
declaration order.

The bug was introduced in Solidity 0.8.26, which added support for passing custom errors as
the second argument to `require`.

> [Solidity 0.8.37](https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/releases/tag/v0.8.37), released on May 20, 2026, provides a fix.

Reviewer 2: This date needs to be updated too, but I'd actually just omit it. Specifying version is unambiguous enough.

Due to the very low severity of the bug, described below, the fix was not prioritized for an
expedited release.

We assigned the bug a severity of "very low".
The affected code is the construction of revert data for a transaction that is already going

> to revert, so contract state is not modified by it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to revert, so it has no impact on contract's state.
```

`require` and instantiated with named arguments in a non-declaration order - and only affects
the IR-based pipeline.

## Which Contracts Are Affected?

A contract is affected when **all** of the following conditions hold:

1. The contract is compiled with the IR-based pipeline (`--via-ir` on the command line or
   `viaIR: true` in Standard JSON). The evmasm pipeline is unaffected.
2. The contract uses `require(condition, ErrorName({...}))` where `ErrorName` is a user-defined
   error.
3. The named arguments are written in an order that differs from the order declared by the
   error definition. Positional arguments, or named arguments written in declaration order,
   produce the correct encoding.

Other language constructs that accept named arguments are **not** affected, including:

- `revert ErrorName({...})` statements
- event emissions (`emit E({...})`)
- internal, external, library, and bound function calls
- struct constructor invocations

Until upgrading to a fixed version, the bug can be avoided by writing the named arguments in
declaration order, or by using positional arguments.

## Technical Details

> A custom error declaration fixes the order of its parameters, and that order determines its

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A custom error declaration specifies the order of its parameters, and that order determines its
```

ABI signature and the layout of its encoded payload:

```solidity
error NamedArgsError(uint256 a, uint256 b);
```

Solidity also allows the caller to pass arguments by name, optionally in a different order

> from the declaration:

Reviewer 2: "also" here sounds weird, as if you just showed the version with positional arguments, but you did not.

```suggestion
Solidity allows the caller to pass arguments by name, optionally in a different order
from the declaration:
```

```solidity
require(false, NamedArgsError({b: 7, a: 2}));
```

The compiler binds named arguments to parameters *by name*, so any permutation that mentions
every parameter exactly once is accepted by the type checker. The type system does not
require the call-site order to match the declaration. As a result, the bug can be triggered
by any reordering. Most surprisingly, this includes reorderings of two arguments of the same

> type, where no positional type mismatch could ever surface.

Reviewer 2: Why is that surprising? To me it's actually the more obvious case. Lack of type mismatch means that the compiler or decoder can't detect it so no compilation or runtime error can save you. It's the fact that the compiler won't fail trying to encode mismatched types that was more surprising to me.

In the IR-based code generator, the lowering of `require` with a custom error passes the
arguments to the encoding helper in the order they appear at the call site, instead of first
reordering them to match the parameter order of the error. With the snippet above, the
contract reverts with a payload whose first word holds the value of `b` (`7`) and whose
second word holds the value of `a` (`2`), so off-chain decoders read `a = 7, b = 2` instead

> of the intended `a = 2, b = 7`.

Reviewer 2: This will be fixed at the time the post go out so it should be written in past tense.

Standalone `revert ErrorName({...})` statements go through a different code path that
reorders arguments before encoding, and so are not affected. The bug is specific to the
`require`-with-custom-error path introduced in 0.8.26.

> ### Misalignment With Mixed Stack Widths

Reviewer 2: You mention two cases in the post:
- swapping parameters of the same type
- swapping parameters of different types represented using different numbers of stack slots

The third possibility is missing: different types with same numbers of stack slots. It's also not considered in the impact section.

The consequences extend beyond a swap of word-sized values when the arguments occupy
different numbers of stack slots in the Yul IR. References to `string`, `bytes`, and arrays

> in `calldata` are represented by *two* stack slots (offset and length), whereas value types

Reviewer 2: - This is redundant. `string` and `byte` are arrays. It would be more relevant to mention slices instead.
- This is not Yul-specific. The bug itself was, but the the stack layout is the same between codegens.
- Some value types also use two stack slots (external function pointers).

```suggestion
different numbers of stack slots. References to arrays and array slices
in `calldata` are represented by *two* stack slots (offset and length), whereas most value types
```

and references in other data locations use a single slot. When a `calldata` reference is
reordered with respect to a value-type argument, the slots passed to the encoding helper are
permuted at the level of *stack slots*, not at the level of named parameters, and the helper

> interprets its inputs against parameter positions of a different width than intended.

Reviewer 2: They are not permuted as individual stack slots. They're still grouped. Just in the wrong way.

Also, "parameter positions of a different width" sounds weird to me. I know what you mean, but only because I already know how the bug works. Generally, referring to it as "width" or "stack width" sounds wrong.

Consider:

```solidity
error StringAndUint(string a, uint256 b);

contract C {
    function f(string calldata s) external pure {
        require(false, StringAndUint({b: 42, a: s}));
    }
}
```

The encoding helper for `StringAndUint` expects to first receive the two slots that describe
`a` (the calldata string's offset and length), followed by the single slot that holds `b`.
With the bug it receives `b`'s single slot first, followed by `a`'s two slots, and then
encodes them assuming the first two slots belong to the dynamic-type parameter. The length
field is therefore read from a value-type slot, and the string data is copied from an

> arbitrary calldata offset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
field is therefore read from a value-type slot, and the string data is copied from a
random calldata offset.
```

In the most severe configurations the encoding aborts with an EVM-level error, which still
causes the transaction to revert - but with no decodable error data - rather than producing

> the intended custom-error revert. In less severe configurations the payload is well-formed

Reviewer 2: I'd say that the latter is worse, because it's sometimes possible for the receiver to successfully decode it.

Actually, the current text makes it sound like the data can never be decoded. Often it actually can. It's just numbers. A small integer can easily pass for a valid offset.

at the byte level but does not match the error's ABI signature, so any consumer that selects
on the error selector and decodes its fields observes values that do not correspond to the
source-level arguments.

## Impact

Because the bug affects only the construction of revert data for transactions that are
already going to revert, it cannot be used to manipulate storage, return values, or external
calls. Its primary consequence is misleading off-chain consumers - block explorers, indexers,
error-decoding libraries, and test frameworks - that decode the payload as if the values had
been placed correctly. In the stack-misalignment cases the failure is more visible: an
encoding-level revert can replace the intended custom-error revert, so off-chain code that
distinguishes specific custom errors from generic reverts may take a different branch than
expected.

Named-argument syntax is uncommon in `require` calls in practice, and the bug remained
undetected for almost two years. The narrow trigger conditions and the read-only nature of the

> affected code path together place this bug in the "very low" severity tier.

Reviewer 2: - It can have on-chain effects - reverts can be intercepted with try/catch or by using a bare call. It's just that this is not (and should not be) commonly done.
- Do we want to also mention the ERC that made us reconsider the severity of this?
